The AWS hyperplane creates a shared ENI per AZ when the lambda funcion is first created
When setting up a health check for a network load balancer you have the option to choose from the protocols of TCP, HTTP, and HTTPS.
The enableDnsHostnames attribute can be enabled to allow public DNS names to be assigned to EC2 instances inside your VPC.
To provide end-to-end encryption (mutual authentication) from the client to the application, we can use a TCP pass through from a classic or network load balancer.
VPW is a managed service. Works as a router to connect your VPC to a non AWS data center
Can be associated with multiple external connections.
Can attach to a one VPC at a time
VGW will work with Site to Site VPN and Direc connect

ASN - Autonomous system number
Are used to identify the organisational networks that are participating in the global border gateway protocolrouting infrastructure
All ASN will be having a unique number
Default ASN for amazon is 64512 in all regions
VGWs must be assigned a private ASN in order to support potential BGP route learning

In dynamic routing, routers will configured to share the knowledge of the available network destination with each other by communicating by a rotuing protocol
VPC route tables will also need routes that point to the onprem networks
In any router configuration, static will be having high priority
Direct connect will always use dynamic routing
Routes learned by the VGWs need to be added in the route tables within attached VPC. This can be done by static or route propogation at the route table level

BGP TCP port - 179

iBGP - Interior border gateway protocol
eBGP - Exterior border gateway protocol

BGP allows different autonomous systems to share the network route information with each other

Weight only applies to the local BGP router
Prefix learned from a iBGP peer are never advertised to other iBGP peers

You cannot change the VGW routing configuration to change the BGP routing weightage and prefix because VGW configuration is a AWS managed service

VPN - Virtual private network
Encapsulates the private and encrypt the same

VPN tunnel is a logical tunnel. Tunnel will be active if the traffic is in place. If traffic acroos the tunnel is stopped the tunnel will be terminated.

2 types VPN

Site to Site VPN  
Client to site VPN

AWS Supported VPN Protocols -

IPSEC is a collection of protocols that autheticates VPN conection and encrypt the data over the VPN. AWS site to site VPN only supports IPSEC tunnels
IKE - Internet key exchange protocol
It is an encryption key management protocol. 

Policy based VPN
Route based VPN

Customer gateway -

Is a VPN device at the customer network



 
 


