Hybrid Network and basics of VPN

VPN -

Requirements -                                    Solution
Traffic must be secured                         Vpns encrypt traffic and isolate  
Connection from multiple location               VPN use the public internet as infrastructure
Fast and Inexpensive solution                   Can be quickly created and destroyed as needed

Virtual Private Gateway (Main role in hybrid infra)

Three gateways :-

Internet gateway, VGW, Transit Gateway

Virtual private gateway - Managed AWS service
Acts as a router between your VPC and Non AWS-Managed Networks. Can be associted with multiple external connections. Can attach to only one VPC at a time
VGW - Two types of connections - Site to site VPN & Direct connect
Easy to deploy, need to give three values;
Assign a name tag value
Assign an ASN value (Autonomous System Numbers) ASN is simply and independant network


Public ASN - A large organization will be having a single ASN and Private ASN to manage thier internal networks
Only private ASN may be used for VGW configuration
AWS default ASN is 64512 available in all regions
Attach to a VPC

AWS Hybrid routing

Two types of route learning

Static - Not helpfull or large organizations
Dynamic - Widely used in large organizations. If network changes, router can learn it, they can change the information automatically adjusting itself.

Site to site VPN - Dynamic or Static
Direct Connect - Dynamic, Always use BGP

In static, Routes are manually added by the adiministrator
In dynamic, Routes learned by the VGW are automatically added to a route by a process called route propogation


BGP

Exterior routing protocol


Extra routing protocols are used to share route availability information from one autonomous system to a different autonomous system.
That's what BGP does.

Routes to available networks or prefixes are going to be shared between peer BGP routers.
These two peer routers have to be mutually configured. Remember, these are two routers in different autonomous systems.
These are being configured by two different administrators. So they need to coordinate with each other to ensure that both of the routers
are able to successfully communicate with each other. So they need to share IP address information and authentication information with
each other beforehand, in order for the peering to be successful. No prefixes are ever automatically shared.


BGP communicates over TCP port 179

BGP doesn't particularly care about what routing protocols or policies are being used on the inside and from a BGP perspective,
we collectively refer to that type of a protocol as an interior gateway protocol. OSPF REP again, those are examples of interior gateway protocols,
but they are important because that's how BGP will learn about the other networks within an autonomous system from the interior gateway
protocol.

Another pair of terms to throw out at you are eBGP and iBGP for exterior and interior

Direct connect connections always use BGP to communicate route information.
They're always dynamic routing and our VPNs can be configured for dynamic routing as well.

BGP allows autonomous systems to share network route information with each other. 
BGP peering and network advertisement must be manually configured
BGP does not care how two peers are physically connected


BGP Prefix preference

Highest weight
Highest local preferance
Shortest AS path
Lowest Metric


BGP cannot sense network quality
Weight only applies to the local BGP router

Assume you two BGP connection (A & B)
A bandwidth is 1 GB
B bandwidth is 10 GB

You need to send traffic to B

Your all Highest weight, Highest local preferance, Shortest AS path & Lowest Metric is same for both A & B
Sill I need to use the B router

For this you need to do the changes in Highest local preferance
Local preference is shared with all iBGP peers
Prefix learned from an iBGP peer are never advertised to other iBGP peers


VPN & AWS

Virtual private network - Logical network
Private traffic is protected by a VPN protocol

AWS support IPsec VPN & IKE

IPsec - Encrypts data, Authenticates connections, Protocol suite
IKE - Internet key exchange
Encryption key management protocol, Negotiate and generates keys for security associations


First you need to create a VGW
Second CGW
Third VPN 

Resources in Onprem can only communicate to AWS resources usin site to site VPN
Viceversa will fail

Direct is always on in both directions.
Traffic uses dedicated infrastructure
Includes a flat hourly port charges
If you want a fast network from onprem to AWS and viceversa, Direct connect is the solution

Hybrid DNS will enable private DNS resolution across connected cloud and on-prem networks

Dedicated, high throughput, low-latency connection to an AWS region
AWS customer may provision their own networking hardware at a DX location or work through a DX partner

Customer traffic is isolated using VLANs

All connection must be single mode fiber
Either 1000base LX or 10G base LR transceivers
Disable auto negotiation in all ports used for DX
802.IQ VLAN encapsulation must be supported across entire connection
Devices must support BGP and BGP MD5 authentication

DX Connections

Dedicated DX connection use customer managed hardware at the DX location
DX hosted connection provides more flexible options interms of throughput and price
DX hosted connection can be established more faster than dedicated connection

DX connections are layer 2 connections 
Layer 2 does not directly support IP traffic

Communcations with AWS will happen through Layer3
DX virtual interface provides layer 3 connectivity

3 Types

Private VIF - Connects to private AWS networks
Private VIF can attach to a single VGW or a single Direct connect gateway with then to connect upto 10 VPC


















